=== Text 1 ===
In a back street of Boston two men sat one sultry
August midnight upon a pile of boards. They were
penniless and friendless; they were smarting under
failure and keen and bitter disappointment. Actual
want stared them in the face and made them desperate.
4And yet, upon the outcome of that midnight scene
mighty issues hung quivering. All the world had a stake
in the thoughts of those poor, friendless, desperate men.
One of them had heard from across the seas the “Song
of the Shirt;” he had heard its sad echo even from the
more prosperous homes of our own land, and its dismal
chords had awakened in his breast a burning desire to still
its horrible refrain, and carry relief and help to the weary
seamstress. Golden visions, too, had floated before him
of the princely reward the world would offer for such
service to its great sisterhood.

=== Text 2 ===
With great difficulty he had persuaded two other men to
join him. One furnished the scanty capital of forty dollars;
the other gave the use of his machine shop, workmen and
tools. Day and night he had worked to produce a Sewing
Machine, sleeping but three or four hours out of the
twenty-four, and eating, generally, but once a day, as he
knew the machine must be built for forty dollars or not be
built at all. The hour of trial had come that very day. The
machine had been completed and put together, and did not
work! One by one the workmen left him in disgust, but
still the inventor clung tenaciously to his purpose, and refused
to yield to defeat. All were gone but this companion,
who held the lamp while the inventor worked. Loss
of sleep, insufficient food, and incessant work and anxiety
made him weak and nervous, and he could not get tight
stitches. Sick at heart, the task was abandoned at last, and
at midnight the worn and wearied men turned their backs
upon their golden dreams and started for their lodgings.
On their way they sat down upon the pile of boards, and
were gloomily discussing the sad fate of the project, when
his companion mentioned to the inventor that “the loose
loops of thread were all upon the upper side of the cloth.”
Instantly it flashed upon the inventor what the trouble was,
and back through the night the men trudged to the shop,
5re-lighted the lamp, tightened a little tension screw, and
in a few minutes Isaac Merritt Singer had produced the
first Sewing Machine that ever was practically successful.

=== Text 3 ===
6It was a great stake which the world had in the gloomy
midnight reflections of two desperately poor men, seated
upon that pile of boards, thirty years ago! Rarely has so
much hung upon the thoughts of two humble men. That
midnight scene settled the question whether woman should
have a tireless helper in her weary task of stitching—whether
or not the world should thenceforward have a machine
for sewing. Out of that lumber-pile conference
came the Sewing Machine and all the mighty interests
involved in its manufacture, sale, and use. It was the answer
to the “Song of the Shirt;” its dolorous tone had
reached—not the rich—but a poor, struggling mechanic;
and his invention has done for woman and for the home-circle
what no other invention ever has done. We look
back upon James Watt, sitting before the open fireplace,
watching the pot lid rise and fall with the then undiscovered
power of steam, as the scene whence issued all the
blessings which followed the Steam-engine. We think of
Franklin flying his storm-riding kite and drawing down
the lightning, as thereby bringing to us all the civilizing
influences of the Telegraph. But neither of these men, if
they could have looked down the dim vista of the coming
centuries, and foreseen what their inventions should do
for humanity, could have contemplated results more surprising
than those which Isaac Merritt Singer lived to see
crowning the invention which hung trembling upon the
results of that talk upon that pile of boards!

=== Text 4 ===
The Telegraph and Steam-engine live daily in the broad
blaze of public view; the Sewing Machine modestly hides
itself away beneath three million of the nine million roofs
of America. They are public blessings; the Sewing Machine
is a purely domestic one. It earns a woman’s dime;
they earn a railroad king’s millions. They deal with the
great arteries of trade and commerce; it deals with the
fireside circle. The Telegraph and Steam-engine proudly
7boast their alliance and familiarity with Capital; the Sewing
Machine contentedly takes up its humble quarters
mainly with people who never drew a dividend in all their
lives. Capital and wealth must run the former; slender
and humble feet most often run the latter. The Locomotive
puffs defiantly in nearly every legislative hall; the
Sewing Machine sings its tireless tune to ears that would
not know what “lobby” meant. The former haughtily
issues its dictum to primaries and conventions; the latter
could not control a solitary vote. Steam and the Telegraph
deal mainly with creation’s lord; the Sewing Machine with
his lowlier sister.

=== Text 5 ===
A certain class of people are apt to underrate domestic
affairs, simply because they are domestic, forgetting that
the real progress of the world is always made beneath the
shelter of the homestead roof, not under the resounding
domes of Senate Chambers; and that a Nation’s surest
hope for greatness and for safety is found in the character
of its homes, rather than in the shrewdness of its merchants
or the skill of its artisans. It is the atmosphere of the boy’s
early home which clings like an indestructible and exhaustless
aroma to his entire life; it is the influence and memory
of what his home and his mother were which mould his
after life, control his habits of thought, and make him a
power for good or for evil in the world. And for the
most part he remains unconscious of any such influence.
He has imbibed it with his daily sustenance and inhaled it
with every breath of his native air, until he involuntarily
weighs everything, measures all affairs, and judges all men
according to the standards and traditions that prevailed in
the now hallowed precincts of his early home.

=== Text 6 ===
Whatever, therefore, brings added comfort to the matron
and the maiden; whatever saves the busy housewife’s time
and increases her opportunities for culture; whatever lifts
any of the heavy household burdens, and disenthralls to
8any degree the WOMEN of our day, contributes an ever-augmenting
influence towards the highest and best progress
of the world.

=== Text 7 ===
And so the importance of the Sewing Machine in its
influence upon the home; in the countless hours it has
added to woman’s leisure for rest and refinement; in the
increase of time and opportunity for that early training of
children, for lack of which so many pitiful wrecks are
strewed along the shores of life; in the numberless avenues
it has opened for female labor; and in the comforts it has
brought within the reach of all, which once could be attained
only by the wealthy few, becomes so apparent that
few, if any, will dispute its right to stand at least beside
its powerful rivals, the Steam-engine and Telegraph.

